README.md, before:

# py-ham-bbs

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads) [![CI](https://github.com/JezzComputers/py-ham-bbs/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JezzComputers/py-ham-bbs/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml)

Tools and configuration files for building a lightweight ham radio packet BBS made with Python using software TNCs and AX.25

## Documentation

Documentation can be accessed in the sepperate [google doc](https://example.com/). ! Not yet accessable

## GitHub Actions

- **Badge**: The CI badge at the top links to the `python-tests.yml` workflow and shows the current status for the `main` branch.
- **Workflow file**: `.github/workflows/python-tests.yml`
- **What it runs**: Executes the test suite (via `pytest`) on pushes and pull requests across supported Python versions.
- **How to view runs**: Open the repository's Actions tab or click the badge to inspect recent runs, logs, and artifacts.
- **Local testing**: Run the test suite locally with `pytest` (or `pytest -q` for quiet) and verify lint/format with your chosen tools (e.g., `ruff`, `black`).

## Conventions

This project follows a set of development conventions to keep the codebase consistent, predictable, and easy to maintain.

### Commit Message Format - Conventional Commits

All commits should follow the **Conventional Commits** specification.  
This helps maintain readable history, enables automated tooling, and clarifies intent.

Common prefixes include:

- `feat:` — new features  
- `fix:` — bug fixes
- `refactor:` — code restructuring without behavior changes  
- `chore:` — maintenance tasks  
- `test:` — adding or updating tests  

More details: [https://www.conventionalcommits.org/](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary)

### Python Naming & Style — PEP 8

Python code in this repository should follow **PEP 8** conventions, including:

- `snake_case` for file names (all lowercase, underscore separator)
- `snake_case` for functions and variables
- `PascalCase` for classes
- `UPPER_CASE` for constants
- 4‑space indentation (One TAB)
- Clear, descriptive names
- Avoiding overly long lines where practical

Tools like `flake8`, `ruff` (what I use), or `black` are recommended for automated checking and formatting.

### Python Warnings Usage

Warnings should be issued using the standard library’s `warnings` module:

```python
import warnings
warnings.warn("message", category=UserWarning)
```

A dedicated formatting/colouring helper is included in the project at ./src/lib/terminal.py and can be imported with `import lib.terminal`; use it for consistent output styling across modules. It adds ANSI colouring and automatic warning colouring based on warning type:

```python
import warnings
from lib.terminal import use_color

# Warnings will now be colored
warnings.warn("message", category=UserWarning)
```

Warning colors:

- `UserWarning`: Yellow
- `RuntimeWarning`: Red
- `DeprecationWarning`: Magenta

### Branching & Commit Discipline

To keep the repository clean and reviewable:

- Each **branch** should focus on a single feature, fix, or task.  
- Each **commit** should represent one logical change.  
- Avoid mixing unrelated changes in the same commit or branch.  
- Use descriptive branch names such as:
  - `feature/pybbs-routing`
  - `fix/direwolf-config-path`
  - `refactor/ax25-handler`

This structure makes code review and management easier.

Commit message:

feat: Update README with FM-D mode information
Added note about FM-D mode for radio setup.

fix colored warnings code block.

README.md, after:

# py-ham-bbs

[![Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.13%2B-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads) [![CI](https://github.com/JezzComputers/py-ham-bbs/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/JezzComputers/py-ham-bbs/actions/workflows/python-tests.yml)

Tools and configuration files for building a lightweight ham radio packet BBS made with Python using software TNCs and AX.25

## Documentation

If possible the radio should be in FM-D (FM Data) mode as audio goes through the DATA path (USB soundcard or ACC connector) which is flat, wide, and unprocessed (what AX.25 wants)

Documentation can be accessed in the sepperate [google doc](https://example.com/). ! Not yet accessable

## GitHub Actions

- **Badge**: The CI badge at the top links to the `python-tests.yml` workflow and shows the current status for the `main` branch.
- **Workflow file**: `.github/workflows/python-tests.yml`
- **What it runs**: Executes the test suite (via `pytest`) on pushes and pull requests across supported Python versions.
- **How to view runs**: Open the repository's Actions tab or click the badge to inspect recent runs, logs, and artifacts.
- **Local testing**: Run the test suite locally with `pytest` (or `pytest -q` for quiet) and verify lint/format with your chosen tools (e.g., `ruff`, `black`).

## Conventions

This project follows a set of development conventions to keep the codebase consistent, predictable, and easy to maintain.

### Commit Message Format - Conventional Commits

All commits should follow the **Conventional Commits** specification.  
This helps maintain readable history, enables automated tooling, and clarifies intent.

Common prefixes include:

- `feat:` — new features  
- `fix:` — bug fixes
- `refactor:` — code restructuring without behavior changes  
- `chore:` — maintenance tasks  
- `test:` — adding or updating tests  

More details: [https://www.conventionalcommits.org/](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/#summary)

### Python Naming & Style — PEP 8

Python code in this repository should follow **PEP 8** conventions, including:

- `snake_case` for file names (all lowercase, underscore separator)
- `snake_case` for functions and variables
- `PascalCase` for classes
- `UPPER_CASE` for constants
- 4‑space indentation (One TAB)
- Clear, descriptive names
- Avoiding overly long lines where practical

Tools like `flake8`, `ruff` (what I use), or `black` are recommended for automated checking and formatting.

### Python Warnings Usage

Warnings should be issued using the standard library’s `warnings` module:

```python
import warnings
warnings.warn("message", category=UserWarning)
```

A dedicated formatting/colouring helper is included in the project at ./src/lib/terminal.py and can be imported with `import lib.terminal`; use it for consistent output styling across modules. It adds ANSI colouring and automatic warning colouring based on warning type:

```python
import warnings
from lib.terminal import use_color

use_color()
# Warnings will now be colored
warnings.warn("message", category=UserWarning)
```

Warning colors:

- `UserWarning`: Yellow
- `RuntimeWarning`: Red
- `DeprecationWarning`: Magenta

### Branching & Commit Discipline

To keep the repository clean and reviewable:

- Each **branch** should focus on a single feature, fix, or task.  
- Each **commit** should represent one logical change.  
- Avoid mixing unrelated changes in the same commit or branch.  
- Use descriptive branch names such as:
  - `feature/pybbs-routing`
  - `fix/direwolf-config-path`
  - `refactor/ax25-handler`

This structure makes code review and management easier.
